This is currently all vapor.

The concept is a messaging client that, rather than being linear, is tree shaped.
Messages all reference another message.
This allows parallel conversation, where context is always maintained.

In XMPP
Basically, each message has an ID.
Each message can have it's subject set to "RE: ID" to signify the message it is refering to.

Also, there would be a couple of messages that can be sent.

One would be "Close Node"
Another would be "Open Node"

A topic is a tree of messages. By default, leaves are the only ones marked as open.
This message would mark a topic as closed, by closing all leaves.
If a tree gets kind of complex, it could be useful to have a button that takes you to an open node.
Probably one for the oldest and one for the newest.

When a message is written, it can be marked as closed.
Perhaps a prefix character in the subject.

Messages without a recognizable subject are put into the main message stack.

This should mean that people with another client should still be able to send you messages, and you should still be able to send them messages.
It's just that all of their messages will be in one line, no matter how you branch them in your client.

It is assumed that when a client posts a response to a node, the responded to node will be closed.

Client could do a bunch of stuff with closed topics. It could remove it, or minimize it or something, for example.

The main stack is meant to be messages that are new. 
They don't refer to any messags.
Like I said, non-tree clients will put every message on this main stack.

GUI
So, basically, I'm thinking it would be columns.
They would have a minimum size, but split.
What I mean is that if you only used the main stack, then it would be fully wide.

When a message is branched, it would split into two columns.

I'm not quite sure how to handle new message events.
Maybe arrows or something, to show the person where the newest message is.
Messages would have a "Read / Unread" status, that is different from "Open / Close"
There would probably be some kind icon or something that means a "Thread" has new messages, and one for an "Open" thread.
The two are different.

An Open thread has messages that either haven't been responded to or marked as closed.
An unread thread has messages you haven't read yet, whether they're open or not.

Double clicking on a message would set you to be making a response to that message.

There would have to be some kind of button for "New Message" that would put something onto the end of the main stack.

